the first book of the Kings now King
David was owned advanced in years and
they put covers on him
but he could not get warm therefore his
servant said to him let a young woman a
virgin be shot for our Lord the King and
let her stand before the King and let
her care for him and let her lie in your
bosom that our Lord the King may be warm
so they sought for a lovely young woman
throughout all the territory of Israel
and found Abishag the Shunammite and
brought her to the king the young woman
was very lovely
and she cared for the king and served
him but the King did not know her then
add a Niger the son of hagath exalted
himself I will be king and he prepared
for himself chariots and horsemen and
fifty men to run before him and his
father had not rebuked him at any time
by saying why have you done so he was
also very good-looking his mother had
borne him after Absalom then he
conferred with Joab
the son of Zahra ayah and with a bias ax
the priest and they followed and helped
at an idea but Zadok the priest benaiah
the son of jehoiada nathan the prophet
shimmie i reaiiy and the mighty men who
belonged to David were not with Adonai
Jew and AD an idea sacrificed sheep and
oxen and fattened cattle
the stone of Zurn which is by an Rogan
he also invited all his brothers the
king's sons and all the men of Judah the
king's servants but he did not invite
Nathan the Prophet benaiah the mighty
man or Solomon his brother
so Nathan spoke to Bathsheba the mother
of Solomon have you not heard that
Adonijah the son of hagath has become
king and David our Lord does not know it
come please let me now give you advice
that you may save your own life and the
life of your son Solomon go immediately
to King David and say to him did you not
my lord o king swear to your maidservant
saying assuredly your son Solomon shall
reign after me and he shall sit on my
throne why then has a denier become king
then while you are still talking there
with the King I also will come in after
you and confirm your words so Bathsheba
went into the chamber to the king now
the king was very old and Abishag the
Shunammite was serving the king and
Bathsheba bowed and did homage to the
king then the king said
[Music]
what is your wish my lord
you swore by the Lord your God to your
maidservant saying assuredly Solomon
your son shall reign after me and he
shall sit on my throne so now look
either Nyjah has become king and now my
lord the king you do not know about it
he has sacrificed oxen and fattened
cattle and sheep in abundance and has
invited all the sons of the king but by
Allah the priests and Joab the commander
of the army but Solomon your servant he
has not invited
and as for youth my lord
cold king but eyes of all Israel are on
you that you should tell them whom will
sit on the throne of my lord the king
after him
otherwise it will happen when my lord
the king rests with his fathers that I
and my son Solomon will be counted as
offenders
and just then while she was talking with
the King Nathan the Prophet also came in
so they told the king here is Nathan the
prophet and when he came in before the
King he bowed down before the king with
his face for ground and Nathan said my
lord
Oh King have you said a tanaga shall
reign after me and he shall sit on my
throne for he has gone down today and
has sacrificed oxen and fattened cattle
and sheep in abundance and has invited
all the king's sons and the commanders
of the army and a buyeth are the priests
and look they are eating and drinking
before him and they say long live King
at an idea but he has not invited me me
your servant nor Zadok the priest nor
benaiah the son of jehoiada nor your
servant solomon has this thing been done
by my lord the king and you have not
told your servant who should sit on the
throne of my lord the king after him
call Bathsheba to me
so she came into the King's presence and
stood before the king and the King took
an oath and said as the Lord lives who
has redeemed my life from every distress
just as I swore to you by the Lord God
of Israel saying assuredly Solomon your
son shall be king after me and he shall
sit on my throne in my place so I
certainly will do this day then
Bathsheba bowed with her face to the
earth and paid homage to the king like
my lord
King David live forever call to me Zadok
the priest Nathan the prophet and
benaiah the son of jehoiada
[Music]
survey came before the king Jake with
you the servants of your Lord and have
Solomon my son right on my own mule and
take him down to jihad there let's say
doc the priest and Nathan the Prophet
anoint him king over Israel and blow the
horn and say long live King Solomon
then you shall come up after him and he
shall come and sit on my throne and he
shall be king in my place for I have
appointed him to be ruler over Israel
and Judah benaiah the son of jehoiada
answered the king amen may the lord god
of my lord the king say so - as the Lord
has been with my lord the king even so
may he be with Solomon and make his
throne greater than the throne of my
lord King David so Zadok the priest
Nathan the prophet benaiah the son of
jehoiada the Karaites and the peel
effects went down and had Solomon ride
on King David's mule and took him to
gear when Zadok the priest took a horn
of oil from the tabernacle and anointed
Solomon and they blew the horn and all
the people said and all the people went
out after him and the people played the
flutes and rejoiced with great joy so
that the earth seemed to split with
their sound
now a de Niger and all the guests who
were with him heard it as they finished
eating and when Joab heard the sound of
the horn he said why is the city in such
a noisy uproar while he was still
speaking there came Jonathan the son of
a by far the priest and Adonai just said
to him come in for you are a prominent
man and bring good news then Jonathan
answered and said to add a Niger no our
Lord King David has made Solomon King
the King has sent him with Zadok the
priest nathan the prophet benaiah the
son of jehoiada the Karaites
and the pilla fights and they have made
him bride on the king's mule so Zadok
the priest and Nathan the prophet have
anointed him King at jihad and they have
gone up from there
rejoicing so that the city is in an
uproar this is the noise that you have
heard also Solomon sits on the throne of
the kingdom and moreover the King's
servants have gone to bless our Lord
King David saying may God make the name
of Solomon better than your name and may
he make his throne greater than your
throne then the King bound himself on
the bed also the King said thus blessed
be the Lord God of Israel who is given
one to sit on my throne this day while
my eyes see it so all the guests who
were with Adonai Jew were afraid and
arose and each one went his way now
Adonai Jew was afraid of Solomon
so he arose and went and took hold of
the horns of the altar and it was told
Solomon indeed a denied of King Solomon
for look he has taken hold of the horns
of the altar saying let King Solomon
swear to me today that he will not put
his servant to death with the sword firm
Solomon said if he proves himself a
worthy man not one hair of him shall
fall to the earth but if wickedness is
found in him he shall die
so King Solomon sent them to bring him
down from the altar and he came and fell
down before King Solomon and Solomon
said to him go to your house
you